The ongoing movement of the six consciousness are liberated in the space, filled from the beginning
, and then there is bad coma, and are nothing other than that, filled from the beginning.
That is the principle and essence of the Dzogchen teachings. In here, again, we talk really about
the Dzogchen teachings.
First of all, Dzogchen is according to the Buddha teaching or according to all the great Masters.
It is the ultimate teaching of the Buddha Shatyamuni, or the Buddha Samadhi Baba, ultimate teaching
.
Why is it known as ultimate teaching? There is nothing more higher or deeper than good to them.
There is nothing higher and deeper than them. It is just an ultimate statement.
What that means is that nothing goes deeper and higher to them. There is nothing more than natural.
Natural, there is nothing more than that. There is nothing more to discover than that and nothing
more to go deeper than the Dzogchen.
There is nothing more than the nature of Dzogchen or Dzogchen. There is nothing more. It is an
ultimate statement. It is a final statement.
That means it is the final nature of our stuff, the final nature of everything.
The final nature of everything. This nature, again, Dzogchen level, is not only outside, again.
Dzogchen level, nature is only to you. And that is our nature of the mind, your nature of the mind.
Your nature of the mind, or our nature of the mind is what we have said here, pure from the
beginning.
That is what is nature, pure from the beginning. There is nothing more to do, nothing to do at all.
It is really pure. And what is said is pure.
It is whether in the pure, every level, every level of that, and that is known as three caiyas.
It is pure dharmakaya, pure sambhokaya and pure narmakaya.
Your nature of the mind and my nature of the mind, everything is really pure.
There is nothing really to do, therefore. It is pure, complete, nothing to do.
For that reason, what is teaching? Relax. Just relax, really.
Just realize, why are you worrying? Why are you worrying? Why are we thinking all this?
All these publications, until the zogchen, all those teachings, from the first Jnana teaching to
the third Jnana teaching, according to the Numa school.
All the basic Buddhist school teaching, Mahayana teaching, Awakanda teaching, Mahayana teaching, Aw
akanda teaching,
the Mahayana and all those teachings are publicated. They are called zogchen poidos.
Publicated, it is all effort, not effort, not activities.
Nature don't have to do activities. Activities are conceptions.
Activities are discursive poles. Whatever we do, it connects with some relief of grasping and clean
liness.
We have to release. Let's be in nature. So therefore, there is nothing to do, nothing to do.
Relax. Relax, what is it called? "R" and "R" and "R".
So let's relax and reflect. Let's relax and reflect.
This nature of our mind is filled from the beginning.
Why is it called filled from the beginning?
What obscurations are in there? If you look, where is ignorance?
Where is the anger? Where is attachment?
Where is all those negative emotions that we seek?
Even there is, where is joy and afflictions?
Where are those good things or bad things?
This, right, the left, this, that. Where is that?
Where is this? This is, you look to your mind.
You are talking about the mind now. There is your mind.
Where is this?
There is nothing that we can identify and highlight there, anything.
Therefore, it is known as pure, completely pure.
Pure from the Dharma of samsara and pure from the Dharma of nirvana.
Totally pure, totally open, totally clean, totally vastness, totally epilogue.
That is the reason, the pure from the beginning.
That nature is what is known as, as then, ordinary Buddha.
Buddha summon the Buddha. Ordinary Buddha and ordinary enlightenment promote your vistas.
Pure from the beginning and promote your vistas.
This is right with us. It's never left us from the beginner's time until now.
None is not going to leave us any time.
This is our nature and this is pure from the beginning.
And that nature, this nature is known as, then, in the Buddha teacher or in the Dokti teacher,
known as also another name, dharmakaya.
That's dharmakaya Buddha. The dharmakaya Buddha summon the Buddha.
That is dharmakaya Buddha.
This nature, that's something that we cannot grab by the dualities, grab by the conceptions,
labeled by the conceptions. It's pure.
It is also grown of everything.
And it's that foundation. For that reason, say, oh, it's grown.
It is that foundation. It is source of everything, yet there is nothing.
Nothing that we can identify.
This is, again, this teaching of the Buddha and pointing out us to our nature of the mind.
So it's not something that talking story, talking right now.
You can correct that with your own mind, with your own intelligence.
It's true or not.
This brain understanding of the kind of correct understanding is also important in the Dokti
teaching,
or not just only in Dokti, but in the Buddha teaching.
When we meditate practice, we should have confidence. We should have certain things.
We're not going to practice with lingering thought, doubt and hesitations.
And this, therefore, we should witness it correctly by ourselves.
Read your mind. It's true or not. Choose.
When it is true, when it is, then answer.
And answer your intelligence and what the teaching of the Buddha taught.
It means it merges. It means it merges.
Then that's it. That's the what we do. Then we relax. We relax with that. That is known as
meditation.
Relaxing on that nature as it is without consistent disciplines.
Disciplines. So that is really known as Dharmukarya, as they say.
For that reason, great Master, Master Gaurav Doji, who is first great teacher of the Dokti,
or human teacher of the Dokti.
And what does the teaching say?
"Buddha Shaktamuni gave the Dokti teaching, but not in the Buddha Shaktamuni poem."
You get bold with that. The poem of the Buddha, some of the Buddha.
The Buddha Shaktamuni gave the Dokti teaching.
In the higher realm, this higher realm is known as Akanishta, in Sanskrit,
which is known as not within dualities.
Buddha Shaktamuni gave this teaching in the poem of Samik Badra,
in the pure land or the realm of the beyond duality.
Land of the beyond duality, or the pure land beyond the duality.
In that realm, Buddha gave the teachings of the Dokti teachers.
Then Gaurav Doji is the first human Dokti teacher, Master,
who came around 25 years or 27 years after Buddha Shaktamuni's Mahabharata in the realm.
And then, explore the Dokti teaching.
You can see the Dokti teaching.
There is the problem with some of the Buddha and as well as the Buddha where it starts.